Documentation for navigation view (#24)
dolittle-interaction/JavaScript.Components.Aurelia: Documentation/controls/NavigationView/_index.md

---
title: Navigation view
description: Describes how to use the Navigation view control
keywords: Using, navigationview, navigation
---

The Navigation view intended for top-level navigation for your app. It has multiple options and will adapt and change behaviour for different screen sizes.

## Anatomy

The control consists of the following sections: **banner**, **navigation-header**, **navigation-items** and **footer-items**.

### Banner

The banner is placed in the header of the navigation view. It will be located to the right of the hamburger icon (if present). It will be wrapped in a div with class `.banner` and you can insert both text and images inside it.

### Navigation header

The purpose of this is a header block on top of the navigation with content that is related to navigation. E.g a search input field. This block is unstyled.

### Navigation items

> Here you can put your navigation links. Navigation items is rendered as an `<ul class="navigation-items">` so you should insert your links wrapped in `<li>`. We recommend that you use our special made `<navigation-view-item>` for your navigation. This component renders as `<li class="navigation-view-item">` and has bulild in functionality that is perfectly fit for this navigation. [Read more about NavigationViewItem here.]({{< ref NavigationViewItem >}})

Reviewer: Use relative root path here, not the Hugo shortcode

Reviewer: On second thought, I suppose the combination is what we need here. Relative paths from root within Hugo short codes. This will allow Hugo to validate the links on build time.

> Here you can put your navigation links. Navigation items is rendered as an `<ul class="navigation-items">` so you should insert your links wrapped in `<li>`. We recommend that you use our special made `<navigation-view-item>` for your navigation. This component renders as `<li class="navigation-view-item">` and has bulild in functionality that is perfectly fit for this navigation. [Read more about NavigationViewItem here.]({{< ref NavigationViewItem >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can put your navigation links. Navigation items is rendered as an `<ul class="navigation-items">` so you should insert your links wrapped in `<li>`. We recommend that you use our special made `<navigation-view-item>` for your navigation. This component renders as `<li class="navigation-view-item">` and has built in functionality that is perfectly fit for this navigation. [Read more about NavigationViewItem here.]({{< ref NavigationViewItem >}})
```

> Here you can put your navigation links. Navigation imtes are rendered as an `<ul class="navigation-items">` so you should insert your links wrapped in `<li>`. We recommend that you use our specially made `<navigation-view-item>` for your navigation. This component renders as `<li class="navigation-view-item">` and has built-in functionality that is perfectly fit for this navigation. [Read more about NavigationViewItem here.]({{< ref NavigationViewItem >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can put your navigation links. Navigation items are rendered as an `<ul class="navigation-items">` so you should insert your links wrapped in `<li>`. We recommend that you use our specially made `<navigation-view-item>` for your navigation. This component renders as `<li class="navigation-view-item">` and has built-in functionality that is perfectly fit for this navigation. [Read more about NavigationViewItem here.]({{< ref NavigationViewItem >}})
```

### Footer items

> Often we see that we need some navigation links that is different from each other. That the links serves different purposes within the application. E.g Settings, User profile, My page etc. These can be placed in the `footer-items` block. Footer-items is as navigation-items, rendered as an `<ul class="footer-items">` . You need to insert `<li>` items into the footer-items. Also here, we recommend to use our special made `<navigation-view-item>` for your footer links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often we see that we need some navigation links that are different from each other. That the links serves different purposes within the application. E.g Settings, User profile, My page etc. These can be placed in the `footer-items` block. Footer-items is as navigation-items, rendered as an `<ul class="footer-items">` . You need to insert `<li>` items into the footer-items. Also here, we recommend to use our special made `<navigation-view-item>` for your footer links.
```

> Often we see that we need some navigation links that is different from each other. That the links serve different purposes within the application. E.g Settings, User profile, My page, etc. These can be placed in the `footer-items` block. Footer-imtes are as navigation-items, rendered as an `<ul class="footer-items">` . You need to insert `<li>` items into the footer-items. Also here, we recommend using our specially made `<navigation-view-item>` for your footer links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often we see that we need some navigation links that is different from each other. That the links serve different purposes within the application. E.g Settings, User profile, My page, etc. These can be placed in the `footer-items` block. Footer-items are as navigation-items, rendered as an `<ul class="footer-items">` . You need to insert `<li>` items into the footer-items. Also here, we recommend using our specially made `<navigation-view-item>` for your footer links.
```

```

## Options

| Property          | Type                                                   | Description                                                                                                                             | Default value |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `selectedItem`    | **NavigationViewItem**                                     | You set your selected navigation item from your view.                                                                               | null          |
| `expanded`        | **Boolean**                                                | Tells the display pane if it's expanded or not. Can be set ni the custom elements attribute. Will be toggled by the hamburger icon. | false         |
| `paneDisplayMode` | **String** ('left', 'left-compact', 'left-minimal', 'top') | Defines the main behaviour of the control. You can read the details further down on this page.                                      | left          |

### paneDisplayMode

> The paneDisplayMode is be default set to left. You can change this by setting the attribute of the custom element to be `left`, `left-compact`, `left-minimal` and `top`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The paneDisplayMode is by default set to left. You can change this by setting the attribute of the custom element to be `left`, `left-compact`, `left-minimal` and `top`.
```

```html
<navigation-view pane-display-mode="left">
```

```html
<navigation-view pane-display-mode="left-compact">
```

```html
<navigation-view pane-display-mode="left-minimal">
```

```html
<navigation-view pane-display-mode="top">
```

{{% notice tip %}}
We use `rem` units in our styling. When `font-size` is set to `100%` on `body`, `rem` refers to the default `font-size` set in the browser. The default `font-size` in most major browsers, is `16px`. That is what our calculations is based of. `1rem = 16px`
{{% /notice %}}

#### left

> `paneDisplayMode.left` will always act fully expanded on the left side of the screen. Stretched in full height and `20rem` (`320px` when base `font-size` equals `16px`) width. This counts for screen sizes tablet and up. On screen smaller than `37.5rem(600px)`, the menu will be out of view on the left side, an hamburger icon will appear top, left on the screen, and when toggeled, the menu will slide in from the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`paneDisplayMode.left` will always act fully expanded on the left side of the screen. Stretched in full height and `20rem` (`320px` when base `font-size` equals `16px`) width. This counts for screen sizes tablet and up. On screen smaller than `37.5rem(600px)`, the menu will be out of view on the left side, a hamburger icon will appear top, left on the screen, and when toggeled, the menu will slide in from the left.
```

> `paneDisplayMode.left` will always act fully expanded on the left side of the screen. Stretched in full height and `20rem` (`320px` when base `font-size` equals `16px`) width. This counts for screen sizes tablet and up. On screen smaller than `37.5rem(600px)`, the menu will be out of view on the left side, an hamburger icon will appear top, left on the screen, and when toggeled, the menu will slide in from the left.

Reviewer: Future improvement thought: animated gif showing breakpoint behaviour

{{% notice note %}}

> [You can see the breakpoints here](/interaction/styles/settings/base/#layout-small-breakpoints-scss-small)

Reviewer: 👏🏽. I love how you explain this and then link to the breakpoints in styles-documentation

{{% /notice %}}

#### left-compact
`paneDisplayMode.left-compact` will display the navigation view as a compact sidebar on the left. It'll be `3rem` wide, and it can be toggled with the always visible hamburger icon. It will then animate to `20rem` width.
This behavior will be the same on all screen sizes. Except for the width when it's expanded. It'll be `80vw` (80% of viewport) on smal screens. On tablet size and up, it'll be `20rem`.

#### left-minimal

> `paneDisplayMode.left-minimal` will make the menu be out of view on the left side, as `paneDisplayMode.left` on small screens, but this mode will force it to stay that way on all screen sizes. Whan toggeled by the hamburger, it'll slide in `80vw` on small screens and `20rem` on tablet and up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`paneDisplayMode.left-minimal` will have the same behaviour as `paneDisplayMode.left` on small screens, but will force it to stay this way on all screen sizes. When toggled by the hamburger, it will slide in `80vw` on small screens and `20rem` on tablet and up.
```
